# PvMolCorrection

*Plasmodium vivax* molecular correction using Pv3Rs: a re-analysis of *P. vivax*
genetic data from the Vivax History (VHX) trial
([Chu et al. Clin. Infect. Dis. 67 (2018)](https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/67/10/1543/5034800)) 
and the Best Primaquine Dose trial 
([Chu et al. Clin. Infect. Dis. 68 (2018)](https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/68/8/1311/5079011)).
The original analysis on which this re-analysis is based is described in 
[Taylor & Watson et al. Nat. Commun. 10 (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-13412-x). 
The re-analysis uses original input and output in
`jwatowatson-RecurrentVivax-4870715`, which was downloaded from
[zenodo.org/records/3368828](https://zenodo.org/records/3368828), and from 
`MS_Final`, which was saved as 
`MS_final_generated_by_running_all_chunks_of_Pooled_Analysis.Rmd` in `RData/`
after running `Pooled_Analysis.Rmd` in 
`jwatowatson-RecurrentVivax-4870715/Pooled_Final_Analysis/`.

The following steps re-produce the re-analysis thus far:  

1) Run `Compute_recurrent_states_Pv3Rs.R`: takes several hours and generates 
    - `prior_estimates.RData` 
    - `results_Pv3Rs.RData`
 
2) Run `Analysable_data.R` to generate
    - `tab_MOIs.csv` (used to create `tab_MOIs_edited.png`)
    - `data_repeat_episode.png`
    - `data_unestimatable.png`

3) Run `Extract_and_plot_Pv3Rs.R` to generate
 - `marg_results_Pv3Rs.RData`
 - `simplex_Pv3Rs.png`
 
4) Run `Extract_and_plot_prototype.R` to generate
 - `simplex_prototype.png`
 - `compare_Pv3Rs_vs_prototype.png`
 - `data_Pv3Rs_vs_prototype.png`
 
5) Run `Compute_failure_rates.R` to generate 
 - `compare_failure_rates.png`
 
6) Run `Code/Compute_FDR_Pv3Rs.R` to generate false discovery rates and 
 - `RData/ys_null.RData`
 - `RData/probs_null.RData`
 - `RData/min_probs_null.RData`
 
7) Run `Code/Compute_null.R` to generate 
 - `RData/nulls.RData`
 - `RData/quantiles_nulls.RData`
	
8) Run `Code/Compute_genetic_proximity.R` to generate plots of Pv3R failure against genetic proximity
XXX
	
6) Run `Compare_joint_pwise_Pv3Rs.R` to generate 
    - `compare_joint_vs_pwise.png`
    - `data_joint_vs_pwise.png`
    
In no particular order: 
 - Run `Plot_site_freq_spectrum.R` to plot per-marker SFS ordered by marker 
cardinality. Nothing notable to report: SFS are remarkable similar. 

`Cherry_picked_examples.R` does not yet feature in any written reports. To better
understand data input and estimates generated by the prototype (can be skipped),
run the `Understanding_*.R scripts`, noting that `Understanding_priors.R` requires
`prior_estimates.RData` to be first generated by running
`Compute_recurrent_states_Pv3Rs.R`. 

To-do list: 
- Sort match counting files (replace with Dcifer? - is that clearer)
